.TH BOTFERENCE 1 "July 2026" "botference" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
botference \- a multi-LLM planning council for the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B botference
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fBinit\fR|\fBplan\fR|\fBresearch-plan\fR|\fBarchive\fR|\fBbuild\fR] [\fIiterations\fR]
.br
.B botference plan
[\fB\-\-web\fR|\fB\-\-share\fR [\fB\-\-no-auth\fR]] [\fB\-\-port\fR \fIN\fR]
.br
.B botference review
[\fIdir\fR] [\fB\-\-share\fR [\fB\-\-service\fR]] [\fB\-\-hosted\fR] [\fB\-\-port\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-no-agents\fR] [\fB\-\-upgrade\fR]
.br
.B botference service
\fBstart\fR \fIname\fR \fB\-\-\fR \fIcommand\fR… | \fBstop\fR \fIname\fR|\fB\-\-all\fR | \fBlist\fR | \fBlogs\fR \fIname\fR [\fB\-n\fR \fIN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B botference
puts you, Claude Code, and Codex in one terminal room. The bots debate
each other in free-form exchanges \- handing the floor back and forth on a
budget \- while you steer, until the council converges on an
implementation plan written by an agreed lead.
.PP
Planning sessions are persistent: chats are saved, resumable, and can be
filed under projects. Pre-existing native Claude Code chats can be adopted
into the council with
.BR /adopt .
.SH MODES
.TP
.B init
Bootstrap a project-local state directory.
.TP
.B plan
Free-form planning council: you + Claude + Codex in one room; the bots can
hand each other the floor (budgeted) until the conversation returns to you.
With \fB\-\-web\fR the council serves as a chat web app in the browser
instead of the Ink TUI (sidebar with projects and chats, streaming
transcript, slash commands with autocomplete, choice/permission cards);
\fB\-\-share\fR additionally puts it behind an in-page password gate
(COUNCIL_PASSWORD, generated when unset) and a cloudflared tunnel, and
prints one shareable https URL plus the password \- open it on a phone.
\fB\-\-share \-\-no-auth\fR skips the password gate entirely: no password
means anyone with the URL can drive your agents, which can read and write
files on this machine; URLs leak (link previews, chat logs) \- prefer the
default password. \fB\-\-port\fR \fIN\fR picks the web port (default
4187). The web server spawns its own bridge session; do not open the same
session in the TUI and the browser at once.
.TP
.B research-plan
Structured planning with prompts/plan.md.
.TP
.B archive
Archive the current thread and restore blank templates.
.TP
.B build
Build loop (default), optionally capped at \fIiterations\fR.
.TP
.B review \fR[\fIdir\fR]
Set up and serve the document-review interface (Google-Docs-style
comments on rendered LaTeX/Markdown, with the bots replying in threads)
in a document repo; \fIdir\fR defaults to the current directory. The
first run copies the engine into \fIdir\fR/review/, auto-detects the
document configuration into review/review.config.json (echoed for
eyeballing), adds the gitignore block, and builds the site; every run
serves it until Ctrl-C. Requires \fBpandoc\fR. The agent bridge turns on
automatically when the machine can run it \- python3 plus at least one
agent CLI (claude or codex) on PATH \- and the launcher prints which
agents it detected; without them the site serves read-and-comment only.
Flags: \fB\-\-port\fR \fIN\fR serves on port \fIN\fR;
\fB\-\-no-agents\fR forces the bridge off and \fB\-\-agents\fR forces it
on (erroring if impossible); \fB\-\-share\fR serves hosted mode behind a
cloudflared tunnel, respecting REVIEW_PASSWORD or generating a
password, and prints one shareable URL (see NAMED TUNNELS below for a
stable URL across sessions);
\fB\-\-hosted\fR enables shared-URL mode without the tunnel
(REVIEW_PASSWORD, entered on an in-page password gate; tools may send
Basic auth with any username instead); \fB\-\-upgrade\fR refreshes
engine files
without touching review.config.json, state/, suggestions.json, or site/.
.TP
.B service
Managed long-lived processes (dev servers, share tunnels) that survive
the shell \- and the whole process group \- that started them: the
sanctioned, auditable way for agents inside botference sessions to
leave something running after their turn ends (anything they background
with a bare \fB&\fR or \fBnohup\fR dies with the turn's process-group
teardown).
.B start
\fIname\fR \fB\-\-\fR \fIcommand\fR… forks \fIcommand\fR into its own
session and process group with stdin from /dev/null and stdout+stderr
appended to \fI.botference/logs/service-<name>.log\fR (rotated to .1
past ~5MB), records {name, pid, pgid, command, started, cwd, log} in
the per-workspace ledger \fI.botference/services.json\fR (atomic
writes), and refuses duplicate running names; stale entries with dead
pids are reaped on every invocation. \fIname\fR is [a-z0-9-], max 32
chars.
.B stop
\fIname\fR (or \fB\-\-all\fR) TERMs the service's process group,
escalates to KILL after 5 seconds, and removes the ledger entry.
.B list
prints name, pid, uptime, alive/dead, command, and log path.
.B logs
\fIname\fR [\fB\-n\fR \fIN\fR] tails the service log (default 50
lines).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Non-interactive (pipe) mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-anthropic-model= name
Override the Anthropic model (Claude participant).
.TP
.B \-\-claude
Solo Claude mode (skip Codex).
.TP
.B \-\-claude-interactive
Experimental: mirror a real interactive Claude Code session through tmux;
botference becomes the steering layer over an attachable session.
.TP
.BI \-\-claude-transport= programmatic|tmux
Select the Claude transport for planning mode.
.TP
.B \-\-web
Plan mode only: serve the council chat web app locally instead of the
Ink TUI and print the URL (nothing opens automatically).
.TP
.B \-\-share
Plan mode only: \fB\-\-web\fR plus the password gate and a cloudflared
tunnel; prints "share this: <url>   password: <pw>".
.TP
.B \-\-service
With \fB\-\-share\fR only (both \fBplan\fR and \fBreview\fR): run the
whole share (server + tunnel) under the managed service lifecycle
instead of in the foreground \- the launcher waits (bounded) for the
canonical "share this: <url>   password: <pw>" line to appear in the
service log, prints it, and returns control with the share still up.
Service names: \fBcouncil-share\fR (plan) and \fBreview-share\fR
(review); stop with \fBbotference service stop\fR \fIname\fR.
Re-running while the service is up reprints its last share line. This
is the flag agents should use to stand up a share that outlives their
turn.
.TP
.B \-\-no-auth
With \fBplan \-\-share\fR only: skip the password gate. Never the
default. Prints a prominent warning at launch and shows a dismissible
warning banner in the served page: no password means anyone with the
URL can drive your agents, which can read and write files on this
machine; URLs leak. Prefer the default password.
.TP
.BI \-\-port " N"
Port for \fBplan \-\-web\fR/\fB\-\-share\fR (default: 4187).
.TP
.BI \-\-project-dir= slug
Project-local state directory slug (default: botference).
.TP
.BI \-\-run-tag= tag
Tag for this run (used in logs).
.TP
.BI \-\-profile= name
Init profile (default: vault-drafter).
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show launcher help and exit.
.SH IN-SESSION COMMANDS
Inside a planning session, commands start with a slash. Run
.B /help
in the room for the authoritative list. Highlights:
.TP
.B /new /adopt /file /rename /resume /delete
Chat lifecycle: start fresh, continue a native Claude Code chat here,
file under a project, name, switch, or delete chats (picker-driven).
.TP
.B /lead /draft /finalize
Planning: set (or let the bots vote on) the plan writer, draft
implementation-plan.md with AI review rounds, and finalize with a
checkpoint.
.TP
.B /relay /compact /goal /permissions /status /auth /model /effort
Session management, including per-participant model and effort switches.
.TP
.B /autorelay [on|off]
Auto-relay a model when its context occupancy crosses 50% of its window,
reusing the same handoff machinery as /relay. On by default; the relay is
deferred to a safe boundary (never mid-turn or mid free-form thread) and
lands before that model's next turn. Persists per-user; a matching toggle
appears in the web council sidebar.
.TP
.B /notify [on|off]
Desktop notification (via your terminal) when the bots finish a turn.
Persists per-user.
.TP
.B /agents [on|off]
Grant/revoke the Claude participant's subagent (Task) tool. Off by
default per chat; Claude suggests it and waits for approval.
.PP
Plain text is auto-routed;
.BR @claude ,
.BR @codex ,
and
.B @all
address participants directly. Typing while Claude is working
.I steers
its current turn (the message is read after its current tool call, as in
native Claude Code); messages during Codex turns queue for the next turn.
Esc interrupts the current turn.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I <project>/botference/
Project-local state: sessions, projects, plans, logs.
.TP
.I ~/.botference/settings.json
Per-user preferences (e.g. notifications).
.TP
.I <cwd>/.botference/services.json, <cwd>/.botference/logs/service-<name>.log
Managed-service ledger and per-service logs (see
.BR service ).
Per workspace, gitignored by convention; never committed.
.TP
.I <cwd>/.botference/ink-crash.log, <cwd>/.botference/crash-reports/
UI crash evidence (exceptions; fatal V8/OOM reports). Python-side
exceptions land in <work>/sessions/crash.log. Fresh evidence is
surfaced at the next launch.
.SH NAMED TUNNELS
Both
.B plan --share
and
.B review --share
use a cloudflared quick tunnel by default \- a fresh random
trycloudflare.com URL each session. For a stable URL, create a named
tunnel once:
.PP
.nf
  cloudflared tunnel login
  cloudflared tunnel create <your-tunnel-name>
  cloudflared tunnel route dns <your-tunnel-name> council.example.com
  export BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL=<your-tunnel-name>
  export BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL_URL=https://council.example.com
.fi
.PP
With
.B BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL
set, \-\-share runs \fBcloudflared tunnel run\fR against that tunnel
(mapping it to the local port) instead of a quick tunnel;
.B BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL_URL
is printed as the share URL when set.
Live events (streaming replies, project lists) travel over WebSocket,
which traverses tunnels reliably; server-sent events remain as a
fallback for local use.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.BR ANTHROPIC_MODEL ,
.BR OPENAI_MODEL ,
.BR OPENAI_REASONING_EFFORT ,
.BR ANTHROPIC_API_KEY ,
.BR OPENAI_API_KEY ,
.BR BOTFERENCE_HOME ,
.BR BOTFERENCE_PROJECT_DIR_NAME ,
.BR COUNCIL_PASSWORD ,
.BR REVIEW_PASSWORD ,
.BR BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL ,
.BR BOTFERENCE_TUNNEL_URL .
See \fBbotference --help\fR for details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B botference init
Bootstrap botference/ in this project.
.TP
.B botference plan
Open the planning council.
.TP
.B botference plan --claude-interactive
Council with a real, tmux-attachable Claude Code session.
.TP
.B botference plan --web
The same council as a chat web app in your browser.
.TP
.B botference plan --share
Browser council tunneled to your phone: one https URL + password.
.TP
.B botference review ~/papers/acta
Set up and serve the document-review interface for a paper.
.TP
.B botference review --share
Serve the review hosted behind a cloudflared quick tunnel: prints one
shareable URL plus a password.
.TP
.B botference review --share --service
The same share as managed service 'review-share': prints the share
line, then returns control with server and tunnel still up.
.TP
.B botference service start docs -- python3 -m http.server 8000
Keep a throwaway server alive past the current shell (and past an
agent's turn); stop it later with \fBbotference service stop docs\fR.
.TP
.B botference --anthropic-model=claude-sonnet-4-6 plan
Override the Claude participant model.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation: README.md in the repository, and
.UR https://botference.com
.UE .
